I started modelling the cup using simple shapes. I tried to keep my mesh as simple as possible, ignoring any sharp corners to be fixed later with subsurf modifiers. My first attempt was unsuccessful as I thought it would be possible to extrude a face inwards to create a cavity in the cup. However, although it visually appeeared to have worked, the bottom and top faces had actually become inverted (this is what appeared to have happened anyway) so later when I applied a texture, it was warping in some strange ways. My second (successful) attempt again started with a cylinder. This time, for the cavities in the top and  bottom of the cup, I simply inset once, then again using the same parameters as the first inset. I then dragged the second inset towards the interior of the cup. I used a similar method to create the ridge on the rim of the cup, creating insets equal to the dimensions of the faces they are inset from and then scaling the result. Since my gemoetry was very simple, I added a subsurf modifier to smooth the model out. however, this caused the shape of the model to stray from how it should have looked. The curves were too severe and where there should have been sharper edges, they were too smoothed out. To fix this, I used a bevel modifier and set the edg bevel weights on the edge loops where I needed a sharper edge. This solved the issue (however, I had to later change this method of sharpening the edges because the bevel modifier along with the subsurf modifier were causing issues with textures).  

For the ice cream, I was initially unsure about how to create such a complex, organic shape. As can be seen in my initial sketches, I was thinking of things in terms of how to recreate them using simple shapes from their profiles. I thought about "stacking" cylinders by insetting and extruding faces then rotating the resulting extrusion, but I could not make that work in my head. It would have not resulted in differnt "layers" of ice cream that appeared to be resting on one another. Two thoughts helped me come to a conclusion.

The first thought I had actually came from my experience with 2D graphics software. Having extensive experience with Adobe Illustrator, I  thought of the ability to make "brushes" from shapes. That is, you can stretch a shape across a path of any length or shape. This led me to my next thought. I considered how the shape of a "whippy" style ice cream is created in the real world. I realised that when ice cream is dispensed, essentially what we get is an extrusion. Just like when things are extruded in manufacturing, the ice cream is forced through an openeing and retains the shape of the opening along its length. So my conclusion was to find out if it was possible in Blender to extrude a shape along a custom path just as you could do with shapes and brushes in Adobe Illustrator. I found the following tutorial that showed exactly such a technique: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=31rhH3FM9-c. The tutorial in question showed how to take a flat shape that represented the cross section of a 3D shape (that remains consistent along its length) and extrude it along a "curve" in Blender. I searched google images to find out what shape the opening on an ice cream dispenser was. There was a wide variety, but they were most commonly star-shaped and it seemed to me that this kind of shape would result in an extrusion that would most closely resemble the ice cream I wanted to recreate. For my first attempt, I made a simple, 4-pointed star-shaped plane and deleted the face inside, leaving only the vertices and edges. This would act as the 2D cross-section of the extrusion. I also created a rough path that I wanted to make the extrusion follow, which was essentially a swirl that starts wide at the bottom and then tapers off towards the top (the path that the ice cream takes coming out of the machine). This provided a good result. At least good enough to take forward with some tweaking. After cleaning up the curve and making some minor adjustments to the star, the end shape was very satisfying.

     