After modelling the shape of the cup and the ice cream, I had to use textures and shaders to make sure that the object looked as though it was made from the right materials. For the cup, I imagined it would be made from a disposable cardboard/paper material. For the ice cream, it should look like a somewhat rough solid with a slight shine. At some point during our group discussions, Albaraa suggested that our fast food items should share a common logo. I intended to create such a logo and apply it as part of the texture.

I began with the ice-cream, as I thought I could get the right look using only a shader without using any textures. After tweaking the settings on the principled BSDF shader, I thought I had a material that was a good approximation of ice cream.

For the cup, I wanted a subtle paper texture. I found a suitable texture that also included normal and roughness maps (these assets were obtained from https://ambientcg.com/view?id=Paper001 licenced under Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal License). I watched various tutorials on texturing and UV unwrapping. I struggled to get the texture to sit correctly on the model and continued to persue videos about UV unwrapping to try and figure out what I was doing wrong. I eventually figured out that I needed mark seams to make the mesh unwrap in a way that would reduce distortion of the textures. I got the texture looking good, yet some of the edges still seemed slightly distorted. Nevertheless, I thought that it was acceptable and moved on.

I wanted to also incorporate our logo as part of the texture (I followed the following tutorial https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBy62M7TcgY). I created the logo in Adobe Illustrator and exported it as a png file. To incorporate the logo, I used a coolour mixing node in shader mode to mix the texture of the paper with the texture of the logo. I performed a second UV unwrapping and mapped the logo texture onto it. I had more problems with the stretching of this texture, with the logo appearing wrinkled and wavy. After a long period of being unable to fix the problem, I realised that when I disabled the bevel modifier on the cup, the logo texture appeared almost exactly as I wanted it. However, disabling the bevel modifier made the cup model apper overly curved and any sharp edges disappeared because a subsurf modifier was also active. I didn't want to remove the subsurf modifier because the model looked too blocky without it and I wanted to fix this without adding more geometry in edit mode. I looked into removing the bevel modifier and adding more edge loops but again this would have involved adding more geometry in tricky locations. I then read about using creases to mark where edges should remain sharp even when the subsurf modifier was active. I watched a tutorial and then removed the bevel modifier and applied creases to the areas of the model that needed sharper edges. This worked perfectly and both my textures looked great (the slight distortion of the paper texture was also fixed when I had finished applying this method). 